[WIKI] Study Parameters main page (#4297)
aces/Loris: docs/wiki/01 - STUDY PARAMETERS SETUP/01 - Study Variables/00 - Introduction to study parameters.md

To view **path** settings (subset of configuration settings), the following query can be run in the MySQL command line: 

   ```sql
      SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID) WHERE csp.Name = 'paths';
   ```

To view all **www** settings (subset of configuration settings), using the following query: 
   
   ```sql
      SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID) WHERE csp.Name = 'www';
   ```

   You may also need to change your URL and HOST settings, which you can do with these commands:
   
   ```sql
      UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourURL' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');
      UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

 - ConfigSetting **host** value should not terminate in a slash.  E.g. "http://localhost" not "http://localhost/". To fix, run: (for http) 

> `UPDATE Config SET Value='http://localhost' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
UPDATE Config SET Value='http://localhost' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
```

This line isn't rendering correctly. I think maybe the triple quotes will help.
```

  > Note: Settings found in _config.xml_ take precedence over the Configuration Module.  Older projects should ensure there is no overlap in settings between this file and the ConfigSettings table.

#### Troubleshooting Tips

   If Loris is having trouble with critical path settings impacting the front-end (e.g. finding the main codebase or the css), it may be difficult to use the front-end Configuration module to correct these path settings.  These path variables can also be accessed and updated via the back-end, where they are stored in the Config database table.  

   To view all configuration settings from the back-end, the following query can be run in the MySQL command line: 
   
   ```sql
      SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (cs.ID=c.ConfigID);
   ```

> For setup troubleshooting, ConfigSettings under the `Paths` and `WWW` sections are important

> View **path** settings (subset of configuration settings), the following query can be run in the MySQL command line: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view **path** settings (subset of configuration settings), the following query can be run in the MySQL command line: 
```

   ```sql
      SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID) WHERE csp.Name = 'paths';
   ```

> View all **www** settings (subset of configuration settings), using the following query: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view all **www** settings (subset of configuration settings), using the following query: 
```

   
   ```sql
      SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID) WHERE csp.Name = 'www';
   ```

   You may also need to change your URL and HOST settings, which you can do with these commands:
   
   ```sql
      UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourURL' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');
      UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

> Tips: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
You've already got a "tips" header above.

Author: you are correct, this might need so prettyffying  later

 - ConfigSetting **host** value should not terminate in a slash.  E.g. "http://localhost" not "http://localhost/". To fix, run: (for http) 
`UPDATE Config SET Value='http://localhost' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');

>  - If you get an error after clicking "Submit" or "Save data" on a form, check that ***url*** Config setting is set for your host. (Previous iterations of LORIS recommended setting this to the empty string)  Run: `UPDATE Config SET Value='_$yourhost_' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - If you get an error after clicking "Submit" or "Save data" on a form, check that ***url*** Config setting is set for your host. (Previous iterations of LORIS recommended setting this to the empty string)  Run: `UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourhost' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');`
```

> '_$yourhost_' 
This line is a little confusing. It contrasts with `$yourURL` above to make it seem like underscores are necessary.

 
 - If your dashboard loads but no other modules load, ensure that your `/var/apache2/apache2.conf` file is set to `AllowOverride All` in the section `<Directory /var/www/>` to enable re-write rules (based on `htdocs/.htaccess`)
 

>  - ensure your `smarty/templates_c` directory is writable by apache run `composer update` to ensure your dependencies (including smarty) are up-to-date

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Ensure your `smarty/templates_c` directory is Apache-writable by running `composer update`. This will also update your dependencies.
```

# Study Parameters Setup

### Overview
This page covers how to set up Loris with basic parameters for research data. 

> Most configuration settings are managed via LORIS' front-end Configuration Module (Admin menu). These configuration settings are stored and loaded from the Database `Config` and `ConfigSettings` tables. Some other configuration settings are also found in the file _project/config.xml_.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most configuration settings are managed via LORIS's front-end Configuration Module (Admin menu). These configuration settings are stored and loaded from the Database `Config` and `ConfigSettings` tables. Some other configuration settings are also found in the file _project/config.xml_.  
```

Should technically be this but won't block

   ```

> For setup troubleshooting, ConfigSettings under the `Paths` and `WWW` sections are important

 - To view **path** settings (subset of configuration settings), the following query can be run in the MySQL command line: 

   ```sql
   SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID) WHERE csp.Name = 'paths';
   ```

 - To view all **www** settings (subset of configuration settings), using the following query: 
   
   ```sql
   SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID) JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID) WHERE csp.Name = 'www';
   ```

 - You may also need to change your URL and HOST settings, which you can do with these commands:
   
   ```sql
   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourURL' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');
   UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName' WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
   ```

>  - ConfigSetting **host** value should not terminate in a slash.  E.g. "http://localhost" not "http://localhost/". To fix, run: (for http) 

Reviewer: >for http

I'm not quite clear on what you mean here. Otherwise everything looks good!

Author: This part was copied over but I think I understand it.

there are 2 config settings `host` and `url`. the `host` one should be just the `domain.loris.ca` (that's one mistake here that I will fix). for the `url` it should be `http(s)://domain.loris.ca` but without a `/` at the end. basically what the `(for http)` is trying to say is if you are using `https://` dont switch it to `http://` this is just an example for http...

I prefer just putting `http(s)://` what do you think ?

Reviewer: Yep I feel like that's more clear!

Author: @johnsaigle better now ?

# Study Parameters Setup

### Overview
This page covers how to set up LORIS with basic parameters for research data. 

> Most configuration settings are managed via LORIS' front-end Configuration Module (Admin menu). These configuration settings are stored and loaded from the Database `Config` and `ConfigSettings` tables. Some other configuration settings are also found in the file `project/config.xml`. Finally, some configurations require direct database access and insertions through SQL queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most configuration settings are managed via LORIS's front-end Configuration Module (accessible via the Admin menu item). These configuration settings are stored and loaded from the Database `Config` and `ConfigSettings` tables. Some other configuration settings are also found in the file `project/config.xml`. Finally, some configurations require direct database access and insertions through SQL queries.
```

>   > Note: Settings found in _config.xml_ take precedence over the _Configuration Module_.  Older projects should ensure there is no overlap in settings between this file and the _ConfigSettings_ table.

Author: probably, I'll leave this until the end to figure out how links will work

# Study Parameters Setup

### Overview

> This page covers how to set up Loris with basic parameters for

Reviewer 2: LORIS :)

research data.

Most configuration settings are managed via LORIS's front-end
Configuration Module (Admin menu). These configuration settings are
stored and loaded from the Database `Config` and `ConfigSettings`
tables. Some other configuration settings are also found in the

> file _project/config.xml_.

Reviewer 2: back tick around `project/config.xml`

> > Note: Settings found in _config.xml_ take precedence over the

Reviewer 2: back tick around `config.xml`

  Configuration Module.  Older projects should ensure there is no

>   overlap in settings between this file and the ConfigSettings

Reviewer 2: back tick around `ConfigSettings`

Author: same, for formatting in note I prefer this being italic

  table.

#### Troubleshooting Tips

> If Loris is having trouble with critical path settings impacting

Reviewer 2: LORIS

> the front-end (e.g. finding the main codebase or the css), it

Reviewer 2: CSS

accessed and updated via the back-end, where they are stored in
the Config database table.

- To view all configuration settings from the back-end, the following
  query can be run in the MySQL command line:

```sql
     SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description
        FROM Config c
        LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (cs.ID=c.ConfigID);
```

> For setup troubleshooting, ConfigSettings under the `Paths` and
  `WWW` sections are important

- To view **path** settings (subset of configuration settings),
  the following query can be run in the MySQL command line:

```sql
     SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description
        FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID)
            JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID)
        WHERE csp.Name='paths';
```

- To view all **www** settings (subset of configuration settings),
  using the following query:

```sql
     SELECT c.ConfigID, cs.Name, cs.Label, c.Value, cs.Description
         FROM Config c LEFT JOIN ConfigSettings cs ON (c.ConfigID = cs.ID)
             JOIN ConfigSettings csp ON (cs.Parent = csp.ID)

>      WHERE csp.Name='www'; ```

Reviewer 2: the three \`\`\` should be on a new line. Also it looks funny on the MD rendering but it may be because the \`\`\` are not on a new line?

- You may also need to change your URL and HOST settings, which
  you can do with these commands:

```sql
UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourURL'
     WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');
UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourHostName'
     WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
```

> - ConfigSetting **url** value should not terminate in a slash.

Reviewer 2: .... should not terminate **with** a slash (_e.g._ "http(s)://localhost" not "http(s)://localhost/").

  e.g. "http(s)://localhost" not "http(s)://localhost/". To fix,
  run:

```sql
UPDATE Config SET Value='http(s)://localhost'
     WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='host');
```

- If you get an error after clicking "Submit" or "Save data" on a
  form, check that ***url*** Config setting is set for your host.
  (Previous iterations of LORIS recommended setting this to the empty

>   string)  Run:

Reviewer 2: "To fix, run:" (like the above point)

```sql
UPDATE Config SET Value='$yourhost'
     WHERE ConfigID=(SELECT ID FROM ConfigSettings WHERE Name='url');
```

- If your dashboard loads but no other modules load, ensure that
  your `/var/apache2/apache2.conf` file is set to `AllowOverride
  All` in the section `<Directory /var/www/>` to enable re-write
  rules (based on `htdocs/.htaccess`)

- Ensure your `smarty/templates_c` directory is Apache-writable

>   by running `composer update`. This will also update your dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Huh? Why would `composer update` have anything to do with `smarty/templates_c`? I think those are 2 separate and unrelated points.

Reviewer: yeah actually this should probably done with `make all` anyway.

Reviewer 3: I don't think either `make all` or `composer update` do anything about the templates_c directory.

Reviewer: Yes, you're right -- sorry I was making a tangential point above.

Author: I think they were two points that got accidentally put on one line
